README.md, before:

# react-combo-select
React dropdown for select and multiselect 

## LATEST
- Text is also returned with value for onToggle() and onChange() callbacks. 

```javascript
let standardArray = ["win-JA007D", "win-JA0008D", "win-JA009D"];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} sort="alphanum"/>
```


## Usability
This plugin require for you to have react and font-awesome, after that import react combo select
```javascript
import ComboSelect from 'react-combo-select';
```
and include css files with styles and font awesome (you may include this in different way)
```javascript
require('../node_modules/react-combo-select/style.css');
require('../node_modules/font-awesome/css/font-awesome.min.css');
```

## props/options

### data
Actual data you want to show, this is an array of either object, strings or numbers. Array or array won't work

```javascript
let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect data={standardArray}/>
```

### text
Text will be displayed as somehintg you have selected or set as a start value, default for this is "-Select me-"

```javascript
let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" data={standardArray}/>
```

```javascript
let arrayWithObjects = [
            {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"},
            {text: "air-JA008D", win: "win-JA008D", value: "JA008D"},
            {text: "air-JA009D", win: "win-JA009D", value: "JA009D"},
            {text: "air-JA107D", win: "win-JA107D", value: "JA010D"}
        ];

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects}/>
```

### type 
Select or multiselect, self explanatory

```javascript
let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D", "JA219J", "JA302J", "JA306J", "JA308J", "JA309J", "JA311J", "JA313J", "JA314J", "JA316J", "JA318J", "JA319J", "JA322J", "JA324J", "JA325J", "JA326J"];

// Pick one
<ComboSelect data={standardArray} type="select"/>

// Or just
<ComboSelect data={standardArray}/>

// Pick multiple
<ComboSelect data={standardArray} type="multiselect"/>
```

### onChange 
Returns function, which will return value that you have picked. It can work with returning just values you have selected, or whole objects if can you need to pass them around

```javascript    
fakeFunction(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text);
}

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} onChange={this.fakeFunction}/>
```

### onToggle 
Function that emit event for opening and closing menu. Returns boolean, true for open, false for close and value which is all selected values

```javascript    
fakeToggle(open, value, text) {
    console.log(open, value, text);
}

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} onToggle={this.fakeFunction}/>
```

### search 
Search through data, will show only data that contain string from search bar. On, off (default), smart (search will be shown only if there is more items then can be shown in window)

```javascript

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D", "JA219J", "JA302J", "JA306J", "JA308J", "JA309J", "JA311J", "JA313J", "JA314J", "JA316J", "JA318J", "JA319J", "JA322J", "JA324J", "JA325J", "JA326J"];

<ComboSelect type="select" data={standardArray} search="smart"}/>
```

### map
If you want to display data from objects, use map! You need to define object with key objects text and value. Text will be the one you display as a text, and value is returning in a onChange function as a paramater. If you want to return whole object, put value=true (boolean). Default is ```map={text: 'text', value: 'value'}```, which means you will have collection of objects, and on select value will be returned and text will be shown in select.

```javascript

let arrayWithObjects = [
            {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"},
            {text: "air-JA008D", win: "win-JA008D", value: "JA008D"},
            {text: "air-JA009D", win: "win-JA009D", value: "JA009D"},
            {text: "air-JA107D", win: "win-JA107D", value: "JA010D"}
        ];

// Key object
fakeFunction(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text) // this will display key object win and key object with text will be shown in tn select.
}

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects} map={text: 'text', value: 'win'} onChange={this.fakeFunction}/>

// Whole object
fakeFunctionObject(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text) // this will display {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"} and key object with text will be shown in tn select.
}

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects} map={text: 'text', value: true} onChange={this.fakeFunctionObject}/>


// Map through function, you allways get item, and have to return value
selectText: function(item){
    return item.hereIs.objectFor.text
}

// function
fakeFunctionObject(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text) // this will display {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"} and key object with text will be shown in tn select.
}

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects} map={text: this.selectText, value: true} onChange={this.fakeFunctionObject}/>
```

### sort
You can sort data, numbers, alphanumercial (alphanum) or don't sort at all. By the default, it will sort strings, but only if the parameters in value are strings

```javascript

// Proper sorting 
let nummericArray = [3, 1, 11, 111, 21, 32, 14, 32, 442];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={nummericArray} sort="number"/>
let standardArray = ["DDD", "CCC", "BBB", "AAA"];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} sort="string"/>
let standardArray = ["win-JA007D", "win-JA0008D", "win-JA009D"];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} sort="alphanum"/>

```

### Active and inactive icons
Can be default, custom or off. For custom just put class that you want, and it would be assigned to icon class. For default, just leave as is. And for off use false or 'off'

```javascript

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} iconSelectInactive={false} iconSelectActive={false}/>
<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} iconSelectInactive={'fa fa-check-circle'} iconSelectActive={'fa fa-check-circle'}/>
<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]}/>

```

### disabled
Self explanatory

```javascript

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} disabled}/>

```

### scrollHeight, scrollMaxHeight and prefferedDirection
scrollHeight lets you choose height of the scrollable options area. Similarily, scrollMaxHeight will set max-height. 
Both of those props require preferredDirection prop, which allows you to choose the direction of the options area.

```javascript

const heightProps = {
    scrollHeight: 200, // number
    preferredDirection: 'down' // 'top' | 'down'
};

const maxHeightProps = {
    scrollMaxHeight: 100, // number
    preferredDirection: 'top' // 'top' | 'down'
};

<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} {...heightProps} />

<ComboSelect type="select" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} {...maxHeightProps} />

```

## New `dataAttr` prop
Added dataAttr prop to be used for QE testing. Each property can be a string or a transform function. When added to HtmlDOM element attribute will be prefixed with `data-`, i.e. `automation` will become `data-automation`.

For each dataAttr property of type function only one argument is forwarded to that function:
+ wrapper: `Component.props`
+ dropDownHeader: `Component.props`
+ listItem: `Component.props.data[index]`

```javascript
<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data}
    dataAttr={{
        wrapper: {
            automation: 'ComboSelect'
        },
        dropDownHeader: {
            automation: 'ComboSelectHeader'
        },
        listItem: {
            automation: item => item && 'ComboSelectItem_' + item.text
        }
    }}
```

### Swtiched to SVG icons
Out of the box ComboSelect is using custom SVG icons that can be overriden by specifing new `ClassNames` using props: `icon`, `iconSelectActive`, `iconSelectInactive`.

```javascript
<ComboSelect
  icon="fa fa-chevron-down"
  iconSelectInactive="fa fa-circle-thin"
  iconSelectActive="fa fa-check"
/>
```

Commit message:

tidied up readme, clarified some things, made it looks less like changelog and more like documentation

README.md, after:

# react-combo-select
React dropdown for select and multiselect 

## LATEST
- Text is also returned with value for onToggle() and onChange() callbacks. 

```javascript
let standardArray = ["win-JA007D", "win-JA0008D", "win-JA009D"];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} sort="alphanum"/>
```


## Usability
react-combo-select requires react and react-dom as peer dependency. All versions should be supported, but make sure you are using matching versions of the two packages.

```javascript
import ComboSelect from 'react-combo-select';
```
and include css files with styles (you may include this in different way)

```javascript
require('../node_modules/react-combo-select/style.css');
```

As of version 1.2, font-awesome is no longer required, but may be optionally used instead of built-in SVG icons. Check the "custom icons" section below for more details.

## props/options

### data
Actual data you want to show, this is an array of either object, strings or numbers. Array or array won't work

```javascript
let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect data={standardArray}/>
```

### text
Text will be displayed as somehintg you have selected or set as a start value, default for this is "-Select me-"

```javascript
let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" data={standardArray}/>
```

```javascript
let arrayWithObjects = [
            {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"},
            {text: "air-JA008D", win: "win-JA008D", value: "JA008D"},
            {text: "air-JA009D", win: "win-JA009D", value: "JA009D"},
            {text: "air-JA107D", win: "win-JA107D", value: "JA010D"}
        ];

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects}/>
```

### type 
Select or multiselect, self explanatory

```javascript
let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D", "JA219J", "JA302J", "JA306J", "JA308J", "JA309J", "JA311J", "JA313J", "JA314J", "JA316J", "JA318J", "JA319J", "JA322J", "JA324J", "JA325J", "JA326J"];

// Pick one
<ComboSelect data={standardArray} type="select"/>

// Or just
<ComboSelect data={standardArray}/>

// Pick multiple
<ComboSelect data={standardArray} type="multiselect"/>
```

### onChange 
Function to be called when an option is selected. It will receive value and display text of the selected item, in that order, as arguments.

```javascript    
fakeFunction(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text);
}

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} onChange={this.fakeFunction}/>
```

### onToggle 
Function to be called when the dropdown menu is opened or closed. It will receive open/closed state as boolean, value and display text of the selected item, in that order, as arguments.

```javascript    
fakeToggle(open, value, text) {
    console.log(open, value, text);
}

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} onToggle={this.fakeFunction}/>
```

### search 
Whether to render a filter field at the top of the dropdown. Allowed values: On, off (default), smart (search will be shown only if there is more items then can be shown in window)

```javascript

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D", "JA219J", "JA302J", "JA306J", "JA308J", "JA309J", "JA311J", "JA313J", "JA314J", "JA316J", "JA318J", "JA319J", "JA322J", "JA324J", "JA325J", "JA326J"];

<ComboSelect type="select" data={standardArray} search="smart"}/>
```

### map
If you want to display data from objects, use map! You need to define object with properties text and value. Text will be the one you display as a text, and value is returning in a onChange function as the first argument. If you want to return the whole object, put value=true (boolean). Default is ```map={text: 'text', value: 'value'}```, which means you will have collection of objects, and on select value will be returned and text will be shown in select.

```javascript

let arrayWithObjects = [
            {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"},
            {text: "air-JA008D", win: "win-JA008D", value: "JA008D"},
            {text: "air-JA009D", win: "win-JA009D", value: "JA009D"},
            {text: "air-JA107D", win: "win-JA107D", value: "JA010D"}
        ];

// Key object
fakeFunction(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text) // this will display key object win and key object with text will be shown in tn select.
}

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects} map={text: 'text', value: 'win'} onChange={this.fakeFunction}/>

// Whole object
fakeFunctionObject(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text) // this will display {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"} and key object with text will be shown in tn select.
}

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects} map={text: 'text', value: true} onChange={this.fakeFunctionObject}/>


// Map through function, you allways get item, and have to return value
selectText: function(item){
    return item.hereIs.objectFor.text
}

// function
fakeFunctionObject(value, text) {
    console.log(value, text) // this will display {text: "air-JA007D", win: "win-JA007D", value: "JA007D"} and key object with text will be shown in tn select.
}

<ComboSelect data={arrayWithObjects} map={text: this.selectText, value: true} onChange={this.fakeFunctionObject}/>
```

### sort
You can sort as data, numbers, alphanumercial (alphanum) or not sort at all. By default, it will sort as strings, but only if the parameters in value are strings.

```javascript

// Proper sorting 
let nummericArray = [3, 1, 11, 111, 21, 32, 14, 32, 442];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={nummericArray} sort="number"/>
let standardArray = ["DDD", "CCC", "BBB", "AAA"];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} sort="string"/>
let standardArray = ["win-JA007D", "win-JA0008D", "win-JA009D"];
<ComboSelect text="-Select me-" type="multiselect" data={standardArray} sort="alphanum"/>

```

### Active and inactive icons
Can be default, custom or off. For custom just put class that you want, and it would be assigned to the i DOM element. For default, just leave as is. false or off will render no icons.

```javascript

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} iconSelectInactive={false} iconSelectActive={false}/>
<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} iconSelectInactive={'fa fa-check-circle'} iconSelectActive={'fa fa-check-circle'}/>
<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]}/>

```

### disabled
Self explanatory

```javascript

let standardArray = ["JA007D", "JA008D", "JA009D", "JA010D"];

<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} disabled}/>

```

### scrollHeight, scrollMaxHeight and prefferedDirection
scrollHeight lets you choose height of the scrollable options area. Similarily, scrollMaxHeight will set max-height. 
Both of those props require preferredDirection prop, which allows you to choose the direction in which the dropdown opens.

```javascript

const heightProps = {
    scrollHeight: 200, // number
    preferredDirection: 'down' // 'top' | 'down'
};

const maxHeightProps = {
    scrollMaxHeight: 100, // number
    preferredDirection: 'top' // 'top' | 'down'
};

<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} {...heightProps} />

<ComboSelect type="select" data={this.state.data} value={this.state.data[1]} {...maxHeightProps} />

```

### data attributes
Added dataAttr prop used to pass html5 data attributes to DOM elements. The value of the prop should be an object mapping some or all of the 3 supported elements to data attributes that should be added to them. Each data attribute is specified as string which will be appended to 'data-' to form the attribute name.

Each property can be a string or a transform function. 

For each dataAttr property of type function only one argument is forwarded to that function:
+ wrapper: `Component.props`
+ dropDownHeader: `Component.props`
+ listItem: `Component.props.data[index]`

```javascript
<ComboSelect type="multiselect" data={this.state.data}
    dataAttr={{
        wrapper: {
            automation: 'ComboSelect'
        },
        dropDownHeader: {
            automation: 'ComboSelectHeader'
        },
        listItem: {
            automation: item => item && 'ComboSelectItem_' + item.text
        }
    }}
```

### custom icons
Out of the box ComboSelect is using custom SVG icons that can be overriden by specifing new classes for i elements using props: `icon`, `iconSelectActive`, `iconSelectInactive`.

```javascript
<ComboSelect
  icon="fa fa-chevron-down"
  iconSelectInactive="fa fa-circle-thin"
  iconSelectActive="fa fa-check"
/>
```
